IMHO the three big ones in life are wealth, health, and happiness. We pursue them in that order but their importance is in the reverse.
wealth health happiness reverse
You can have the mind or you can have the moment.
mind moment
Ego is false confidence, self-respect is true confidence.
Ego respect
No one can compete with you on being you. Most of life is a search for who and what needs you the most.
compete who what needs
A rational person can find peace by cultivating indifference to things outside of their control.
rational peace indifference control
Success is the enemy of learning. It can deprive you of the time and the incentive to start over. Beginner’s mind also needs beginner’s time.
Success enemy learning deprive time incentive mind
Escape competition through authenticity.
Escape competition authenticity
The heart decides, the head rationalizes.
heart decides head rationalizes
The fundamental delusion — there is something out there that will make you happy and fulfilled forever.
delusion happy fulfilled forever
All the benefits in life come from compound interest — money, relationships, habits — anything of importance.
benefits compound interest money relationships habits importance
The compound interest from many quick small iterations is greater than the compound interest from a few slow big iterations. Compound interest operates in most intellectual and social domains.
compound iterations slow big intellectual social
Relax. You’ll live longer *and* perform better.
Relax longer perform better
Twitter is television for intellectuals.
Twitter television intellectuals
If you can't decide, the answer is No.
decide No
You don’t get rich by spending your time to save money. You get rich by saving your time to make money.
rich spending save money make
Trade money for time, not time for money. You’re going to run out of time first.
money time
Seek wealth, not money or status. Wealth is having assets that earn while you sleep. Money is how we transfer time and wealth. Status is your place in the social hierarchy.
wealth money status assets earn sleep transfer social hierarchy time
Work as hard as you can. Even though who you work with and what you work on are more important than how hard you work.
Work hard who what important
It is the mark of a charlatan to explain a simple concept in a complex way.
charlatan explain simple concept complex
Self-image is the prison. Other people are the guards.
Self prison guards
The greatest superpower is the ability to change yourself.
superpower change yourself
We say "peace of mind" but really what we want is peace from mind.
peace of from want mind
A fit body, a calm mind, a house full of love. These things cannot be bought — they must be earned.
fit body calm mind house cannot full love bought earned
Founders run every sprint as if they’re about to lose, but grind out the long race knowing that victory is inevitable.
lose grind victory inevitable
It's never been easier to start a company. It's never been harder to build one.
easier harder start build
An early exit for your startup is a mirage in the desert. If you thirst for it, it disappears.
early exit startup mirage thirst disappears
Read what you love until you love to read.
love read
Wealth creation is an evolutionarily recent positive-sum game. Status is an old zero-sum game. Those attacking wealth creation are often just seeking status.
Wealth creation evolutionarily recent positive game Status attacking seeking
The reality is life is a single-player game. You’re born alone. You’re going to die alone. All of your interpretations are alone. All your memories are alone. You’re gone in three generations and nobody cares. Before you showed up, nobody cared. It’s all single-player.
life single born die interpretations memories generations
Become the best in the world at what you do. Keep redefining what you do until this is true.
best redefining true
In an age of infinite leverage, judgement is the most important skill.
infinite leverage judgement important
Leverage is a force multiplier for your judgement.
Leverage force multiplier judgement
Once you’ve truly controlled your own fate, for better or for worse, you’ll never let anyone else tell you what to do.
controlled fate
You will get rich by giving society what it wants but does not yet know how to get. At scale.
rich society scale
People who try to look smart by pointing out obvious exceptions actually signal the opposite.
smart obvious exceptions signal opposite
The selfish reason to be ethical is that it attracts the other ethical people in the network.
selfish ethical attracts network
There are no get rich quick schemes. That’s just someone else getting rich off you.
no rich you
Specific knowledge is found by pursuing your genuine curiosity and passion rather than whatever is hot right now.
Specific knowledge genuine curiosity passion hot
Better to find a new audience than to write for the audience.
Better find new write for audience
Learn to sell. Learn to build. If you can do both, you will be unstoppable.
sell build unstoppable
A taste of freedom can make you unemployable.
taste freedom unemployable
Your closest friends are the ones you can have a relationship with about nothing.
closest relationship nothing
'Consensus' is just another way of saying 'average'.
Consensus average
Morality and ethics automatically emerge when we realize the long term consequences of our actions.
Morality ethics automatically emerge realize long consequences actions
The best jobs are neither decreed nor degreed. They are creative expressions of continuous learners in free markets.
best jobs decreed degreed creative expressions continuous learners free markets
The skills you really want can’t be taught, but they can be learned.
skills taught learned
Building technology means you don’t have to choose between practicing science, commerce, and art.
technology science commerce art
Free education is abundant, all over the internet. It’s the desire to learn that’s scarce.
Free education abundant internet desire learn scarce
Teaching is more a way for the teacher to learn than for the student to learn.
Teaching teacher learn student
A busy mind accelerates the passage of subjective time.
busy mind accelerates passage subjective time
All the value in life, including in relationships, comes from compound interest.
value life relationships compound interest
The first rule of handling conflict is don't hang around with people who are constantly engaging in conflict.
handling conflict constantly engaging
If you want to be successful, surround yourself with people who are more successful than you are, but if you want to be happy, surround yourself with people who are less successful than you are.
successful more happy less
Pick an industry where you can play long term games with long term people.
industry games people
The most important trick to be happy is to realize that happiness is a choice that you make and a skill set that you develop. You choose to be happy, and then you work at it. It's just like building muscles.
happy happiness choice skill develop choose work
Don’t do things that you know are morally wrong. Not because someone is watching, but because you are. Self-esteem is just the reputation that you have with yourself. You’ll always know.
morally wrong someone watching esteem reputation yourself always
If you create intersections, you’re going to have collisions.
create intersections have collisions
The right to debate should not be up for debate.
right debate not for debate
Knowledge is discovered by all of us, each adding to the whole. Wisdom is rediscovered by each of us, one at a time.
Knowledge discovered all adding whole Wisdom rediscovered each one
My 1 repeated learning in life: "There Are No Adults" Everyone's making it up as they go along. Figure it out yourself, and do it.
repeated learning life No Adults making Figure yourself do
Making money through an early lucky trade is the worst way to win. The bad habits that it reinforces will lead to a lifetime of losses.
money early lucky trade worst win bad habits reinforces lifetime losses
Forty hour workweeks are a relic of the Industrial Age. Knowledge workers function like athletes — train and sprint, then rest and reassess.
Forty workweeks relic Industrial Knowledge athletes train sprint rest reassess
Information is everywhere but its meaning is created by the observer that interprets it. Meaning is relative and there is no objective, over-arching meaning.
Information everywhere meaning created observer interprets Meaning relative no objective
If you’re more passionate about founding a business than the business itself, you can fall into a ten year trap. Better to stay emotionally unattached and select the best opportunity that arises. Applies to relationships too.
more passionate founding business ten trap emotionally unattached best opportunity relationships
Smart money is just dumb money that’s been through a crash.
Smart money dumb crash
The secret to public speaking is to speak as if you were alone.
secret public speaking speak alone
Notifications are just alarm clocks that someone else is setting for you.
Notifications alarm
The best way, perhaps the only way, to change others is to become an example.
best only change others example
Sophisticated foods are bittersweet (wine, beer, coffee, chocolate). Addictive relationships are cooperative and competitive. Work becomes flow at the limits of ability. The flavor of life is on the edge.
Sophisticated bittersweet Addictive relationships cooperative competitive Work flow limits ability flavor life edge
I think the best way to prepare for the future 20 years is find something you love to do, to have a shot at being one of the best people in the world at it. Build an independent brand around it, with your name.
best prepare future 20 love do best independent brand name
Technology is not only the thing that moves the human race forward, but it’s the only thing that ever has. Without technology, we’re just monkeys playing in the dirt.
Technology forward only ever Without monkeys playing dirt
Don’t debate people in the media when you can debate them in the marketplace.
debate media marketplace
Twitter is a way to broadcast messages to hundreds of millions of people to find the few dozen that you actually want to talk to.
Twitter broadcast talk
A contrarian isn’t one who always objects — that’s a conformist of a different sort. A contrarian reasons independently, from the ground up, and resists pressure to conform.
contrarian always conformist reasons independently resists conform
The real struggle isn’t proletariat vs bourgeois. It’s between high-status elites and wealthy elites. When their cooperation breaks, revolution.
struggle proletariat bourgeois elites wealthy cooperation revolution
Branding requires accountability. To build a great personal brand (an eponymous one), you must take on the risk of being publicly wrong.
Branding accountability great personal eponymous risk publicly wrong
If you're going to pick 3 cards in the hand you're dealt, take intelligence, drive, and most importantly, emotional self-discipline.
intelligence drive emotional discipline
Before you can lie to another, you must first lie to yourself.
lie another yourself
This is such a short and precious life that it’s really important that you don’t spend it being unhappy.
short precious life important unhappy
You make your own luck if you stay at it long enough.
make own luck stay
The power to make and break habits and learning how to do that is really important.
power make break habits learning important
We’re not really here for that long and we don’t really matter that much. And nothing that we do lasts. So eventually you will fade. Your works will fade. Your children will fade. Your thoughts will fade. This planet will fade. The sun will fade. It will all be gone.
matter nothing lasts you fade works children sun planet thoughts gone
The problem happens when we have multiple desires. When we have fuzzy desires. When we want to do ten different things and we’re not clear about which is the one we care about.
problem multiple desires fuzzy clear one care
People spend too much time doing and not enough time thinking about what they should be doing.
doing thinking should
The people who succeed are irrationally passionate about something.
succeed irrationally passionate
I don’t plan. I’m not a planner. I prefer to live in the moment and be free and to flow and to be happy.
plan planner free flow happy
If you try to micromanage yourself all you’re going to do is make yourself miserable.
micromanage miserable
Social media has degenerated into a deafening cacophony of groups signaling and repeating their shared myths.
Social degenerated deafening cacophony signaling repeating shared myths
If it entertains you now but will bore you someday, it’s a distraction. Keep looking.
entertains now bore someday distraction looking
If the primary purpose of school was education, the Internet should obsolete it. But school is mainly about credentialing.
primary purpose school education Internet obsolete credentialing
Desire is a contract that you make with yourself to be unhappy until you get what you want.
Desire contract unhappy want
Technology is applied science. Science is the study of nature. Mathematics is the language of nature. Philosophy is the root of mathematics. All tightly interrelated.
Technology applied Science study nature Mathematics language Philosophy root mathematics interrelated
Be present above all else.
present above
Who you do business with is just as important as what you choose to do.
business important choose do
If you can’t see yourself working with someone for life, don’t work with them for a day.
working someone life day
Time is the ultimate currency and I should have been more tight fisted with it.
Time ultimate currency tight fisted
Impatience is a virtue. Self-discipline is another form of self conflict. Find things that excite you.
Impatience virtue discipline conflict excite
Earn with your mind, not your time.
Earn mind time
Humans are basically habit machines… I think learning how to break habits is actually a very important meta skill and can serve you in life almost better than anything else.
habit machines learning break important meta serve better
The older the problem, the older the solution.
older problem solution
Humans aren’t evolved to worry about everything happening outside of their immediate environment.
evolved worry everything outside immediate environment
The Efficient Markets Hypothesis fails because humans are herd animals, not independent rational actors. Thus the best investors tend to be antisocial and contrarian.
Efficient Markets fails herd independent rational best investors antisocial contrarian
You’re never going to get rich renting out your time.
never rich renting time
Lots of literacy in modern society, but not enough numeracy.
literacy modern numeracy
Above product-market fit is founder-product-market fit.
Above product founder
Good copy is a poor substitute for good UI. Good marketing is a poor substitute for a good product.
copy poor substitute UI marketing product
Software is gnawing on Venture Capital.
Software gnawing
Society has had multiple stores of value, as none is perfectly secure. Gold, oil, dollars, real estate, (some) bonds & equities. Crypto is the first that’s decentralized *and* digital.
stores value secure Gold oil dollars estate bonds equities Crypto first decentralized digital
Crypto is a bet against the modern macroeconomic dogma, which is passed off as science, but is really a branch of politics — with rulers, winners, and losers.
Crypto bet macroeconomic dogma science politics rulers winners losers
The overeducated are worse off than the undereducated, having traded common sense for the illusion of knowledge.
overeducated worse undereducated traded illusion knowledge
Trade money for time, not time for money. You’re going to run out of time first.
Trade money time first
School, politics, sports, and games train us to compete against others. True rewards - wealth, knowledge, love, fitness, and equanimity - come from ignoring others and improving ourselves.
School politics sports games train compete others rewards wealth knowledge love fitness equanimity ignoring improving ourselves
If you eat, invest, and think according to what the ‘news’ advocates, you’ll end up nutritionally, financially and morally bankrupt.
eat invest think news nutritionally financially morally bankrupt
Your goal in life is to find out the people who need you the most, to find out the business that needs you the most, to find the project and the art that needs you the most. There is something out there just for you.
goal people business project
Yoga cultivates Peace of Body. Meditation cultivates Peace of Mind.
Yoga Peace Body Meditation Mind
Judgement requires experience, but can be built faster by learning foundational skills.
Judgement requires experience faster learning foundational skills
Tell your friends that you're a happy person. Then you'll be forced to conform to it. You'll have a consistency bias. You have to live up to it. Your friends will expect you to be a happy person.
happy forced conform consistency bias live expect
Clear thinkers appeal to their own authority.
Clear thinkers appeal authority
Think clearly from the ground up. Understand and explain from first principles. Ignore society and politics. Acknowledge what you have. Control your emotions.
clearly first principles Ignore society politics Acknowledge Control emotions
Cynicism is easy. Mimicry is easy. Optimistic contrarians are the rarest breed.
Cynicism easy Mimicry Optimistic contrarians rarest
If they can train you to do it, then eventually they will train a computer to do it.
train computer
A great goal in life would be to not have to be in a given place at a given time... Being accountable for your output rather than your input. I would love to be paid purely for my judgment.
given place time accountable output input
Following your genuine intellectual curiosity is a better foundation for a career than following whatever is making money right now.
genuine intellectual curiosity foundation career money
Objectively, the world is improving. To the elites, it’s falling apart as their long-lived institutions are flattened by the Internet.
Objectively improving elites institutions flattened Internet
One of the most damaging and widespread social beliefs is the idea that most adults are incapable of learning new skills.
damaging widespread social beliefs adults incapable learning new skills
A personal metric: how much of the day is spent doing things out of obligation rather than out of interest?
personal metric obligation interest
Caught in a funk? Use meditation, music, and exercise to reset your mood. Then choose a new path to commit emotional energy for rest of day.
meditation music exercise
To be honest, speak without identity.
honest speak without identity
Politics is sports writ large — pick a side, rally the tribe, exchange stories confirming bias, hurl insults and threats at the other side.
Politics sports side tribe exchange confirming insults threats
People who live far below their means enjoy a freedom that people busy upgrading their lifestyles can’t fathom.
freedom upgrading fathom
We feel guilt when we no longer want to associate with old friends and colleagues who haven’t changed. The price, and marker, of growth.
guilt associate changed price marker growth
Total honesty at all times. It’s almost always possible to be honest & positive.
Total honesty possible honest positive
Truth is that which has predictive power.
Truth predictive
Watch every thought. Always ask, why am I having this thought?
Watch every thought ask why thought
All greatness comes from suffering.
All greatness comes from suffering
Love is given, not received.
Love given not received
Enlightenment is the space between your thoughts.
Enlightenment space between thoughts
Every moment has to be complete in and of itself.
moment complete
So I have no time for short-term things: dinners with people I won’t see again, tedious ceremonies to please tedious people, traveling to places that I wouldn’t go to on vacation.
short dinners tedious ceremonies people traveling vacation
You can change it, you can accept it, or you can leave it. 
change accept leave
What is not a good option is to sit around wishing you would change it but not changing it, wishing you would leave it but not leaving it, and not accepting it. It’s that struggle, that aversion, that is responsible for most of our misery. 
struggle aversion misery
I don’t have time is just saying it’s not a priority.
time not priority
Happiness is a state where nothing is missing.
Happiness nothing missing
If you don’t love yourself who will?
you love yourself
If being ethical were profitable everybody would do it.
ethical profitable everybody
Someone who is using a lot of fancy words and big concepts probably doesn’t know what they’re talking about. The smartest people can explain things to a child; if you can’t do that, you don’t understand the concept.
fancy big smartest child understand
Signaling virtue is a vice.
Signaling virtue vice
Investing favors the dispassionate. Markets efficiently separate emotional investors from their money.
Investing favors dispassionate Markets efficiently separate emotional investors money
Reality is neutral. Our reactions reflect back and create our world. Judge, and feel separate and lonely. Anger, and lose peace of mind. Cling, and live in anxiety. Fantasize, and miss the present. Desire, and suffer until you have it. Heaven and hell are right here, right now.
Reality neutral reactions reflect create Judge separate lonely Anger lose Cling anxiety Fantasize present Desire suffer
Politics is the exercise of power without merit.
Politics exercise power without merit
Doctors won’t make you healthy. Nutritionists won’t make you slim. Teachers won’t make you smart. Gurus won’t make you calm. Mentors won’t make you rich. Trainers won’t make you fit. Ultimately, you have to take responsibility. Save yourself.
Doctors healthy Nutritionists slim Teachers smart Gurus calm Mentors rich Trainers fit responsibility Save
You have to surrender, at least a little bit, to be the best version of yourself possible.
surrender best
The internet is the best school ever created. The best peers are on the Internet. The best books are on the Internet. The best teachers are on the Internet. The tools for learning are abundant. It’s the desire to learn that’s scarce.
internet best school peers Internet books teachers tools learning scarce
Understand that ethical wealth creation is possible. If you secretly despise wealth, it will elude you.
ethical wealth possible despise elude
Ignore people playing status games. They gain status by attacking people playing wealth creation games.
Ignore status attacking creation
Don't partner with cynics and pessimists. Their beliefs are self-fulfilling.
partner cynics pessimists beliefs fulfilling
It’s increasingly clear that the wealth and power of any given nation state will be proportional to its ability to create and utilize new technology.
wealth power proportional create utilize technology
Shorter feedback loops means more iterations, and it’s the number of iterations, not the number of hours, that drives learning.
Shorter feedback iterations number hours learning not
If raising children was less rewarding than not doing it, the human race would have gone extinct.
raising less rewarding not extinct
Founder mentality: If you think like an owner, and you act like an owner, it’s only a matter of time until you become an owner.
Founder think owner act become
A busy calendar and a busy mind will destroy your ability to create anything great.
busy calendar mind destroy ability create great
Inspiration is perishable - act on it immediately.
Inspiration perishable immediately
Be impatient with actions but patient with results.
impatient actions patient results
You want to be rich and anonymous, not poor and famous.
rich anonymous poor famous
